---
layout: post
title: "Antii-Nihilism"
date: 2025-01-31
location: Memorial Union Starbucks, Tempe, AZ, USA
---
Nihilism has affected the last generations like the plague affected those that lived during the earlier ages of human history.   
As F. Nietzche predicted with incredible accuracy, the murder of God led to the loss of life's meaning which for many, simply translates into a lack of purpose, a lack of a meaningful goal in life and a hard time understanding the justification for life's inevitable suffering.   
The pinnacle of this absurd new meaningless life is Existentialism, particularly A. Camus' Absurdism exemplified in the life of the protagonist Arthur Mersault of one of my favorite books of his: The Stranger.   
In my personal exploration and search for meaning I have recently noticed that although words like Atheism and Agnosticism have been floating around for long. There is not one that describes the belief that something greater, yet unintelligible is present and every life form can access its power simply following a deeper and often lost sense of self.  
Let me explain. Despite the fact that I reluctantly fall into the definition of agnostic, because I think I am not smart enough to understand what the existence of lack thereof of God would mean or look like, I do think that meaning for man must be regained from the bottom up instead of viceversa. I know I am disappointing my eighteen year old self here but there is simply not a way for humans to truly grasp the span of the Universe, let alone the cause behind it or the absence of such a cause. But this doesn’t necessarily lead to the lack of overall meaning. Meaning is more and more apparent as we move down the complexity chain of life. It is pretty clear what the purpose of a virus is: to keep existing in perpetuity both physically (the vector itself) and essentially as information that propagates through time and space.   
For more complex life forms, like a flower, this purpose is the same, and yet it requires more steps to achieve the same goal of perpetuity, from seed, to roots, to stem, to blossom and eventually to pollination to spread the genetic information it holds within itself. From virus to flower I skipped many organisms on the scale of complexity, so allow me to do a similar leap to respect the time of the reader. But let’s not get to humans just yet, let’s stop and observe our closest ancestor: chimpanzees. These relatives of ours live within intricate and interconnected hierarchy structures, they know each other by name (or sound I should say) they collaborate, gossip, groom each other to achieve their hidden goals of gaining someone's favor, they “elect” leaders and even perform coupes if the tide changes. And yet I ask you, what do you think the purpose of a chimpanzee is? If your instinctive answer is that it doesn’t have one, I might have jumped too fast up the complexity scale, so I recommend you go through increasingly complex organisms and ask this very question for each. If you are following along then clearly the answer has not changed from the one for the virus or the flower. The purpose is to keep living, in time and space, as an individual and as a species. Now I would argue that the leap from virus to monkey is way greater than from monkey to human. Some arrogant men disagree but each one of us is free to lie to themselves. It becomes clear then that life purpose is straight forward: to keep existing, individually (not dying is a clear human desire), as a family (we love selfishly to protect our shared genes) and finally spiritually and intellectually to contribute with our knowledge and experiences to the future prosperity of humanity, again both in space (covering the entire planet and beyond to other planets in the solar system and them galaxy) and time.   
Now, do we need a God to align ourselves with life purpose? Perhaps we did in the past, when individual selfishness could have caused more harm than benefit to overall society.   
Nowadays society keeps everyone in check because of control, everyone is aware of the fact that they could be filmed at all times, which is not much different from the idea that God is seeing all you do, actually it might be a lot more intimidating as we fear peer judgment more than that of an unknowable entity. And yet this has not led to the flourishing of life\! The complete opposite indeed, many if not all of the so called developing countries are measuring catastrophic birth rates as lifespan and quality increases year over year. We have somehow, in the search for deeper meaning, lost track of the bigger picture, the picture in which we are nothing but a gear in life’s mechanism of perpetuating itself. I am optimistic that this trend will revert back to a healthier society. Why am I optimistic? Because social media is acting like a marriage counselor and us the people as a long time married couple are finally confronting all the issues that afflict us. This is the only way to get past the brutish and lifeless ideas that stem from nihilism and return to the true purpose of life: continuation.   
It is this reason why my definition of good is different from all that I have heard. Here it is: good is that which increases the probability that life keeps existing and expanding both in time and space. Thus killing is not good, having kids is. Nihilism might be right, but it is not good.   
