---  
layout: post  
title: "Entrepreneurship Vs. 9-5 (a rant)"  
date: 2025-02-09  
location: Starbuck on Forest & University, Tempe, AZ, USA  
--- 

Many of us, and probably you, if you’re reading this, have dreamt of starting a company of their own and making a (hell of a) living selling their products and services.   
Despite this, most people follow the beaten path of going to college, perhaps not giving this question enough thought: “should I try my best to land a good paying job, or should I take the risk of starting my own business?”  
Well today I’ll think this with you, the reader and hopefully guide each one to the appropriate conclusion. (I might be biased).

To start off, I believe that income should be an important factor when deciding which route to choose as a person but not for the reason you might think. Yes, flashy materialism can be fun\! And of course good healthcare, housing and education for us and our family are paramount to the good life\! All these are true but, income to me represents the trackable amount of how much impact we are contributing to society and overall humanity.   
Positive impact is, as I’ve said in other texts, the main diver of human’s satisfaction and thus lifelong enjoyment\! With this clarification in mind let’s compare and contrast the two scenarios while staying as level headed and realistic as possible. If you’re over 16 and you don’t have an absurd talent in something you will probably not be the next Musk or Zuckerberg, those guys were already building shit like there was no tomorrow by then. And for the same reason, the chance of becoming a top level engineer lead at one of the top 5 companies in the world bringing home 800k \+ a year is almost equally unlikely. Perhaps you are different, but I am speaking for myself, I like to be delusional but… not that delusional.   
Now for an above average person, the 200-300k /yr salary is attainable through hard work and dedication to a specific career path and the willingness to put in 10-15 years of work both inside the company you work for and outside work to be prepared for interviews for potential job hopping opportunities.   
Now for the entrepreneurial side of things, although billions are hard to reach, the US classifies small to medium enterprises (SME) as whatever is less than 1000 employees and less than $1 billion in revenue. The line between the small and medium sizes is roughly around 50 million a year in revenue. So let’s be optimistic and realistic and put ourselves at the the lower end after 10-15 years of hard work and dedication with a goal of 10 milli a year,  
And why not let’s issue ourselves roughly around the same salary of 200-300k /yr. Now we can actually compare the other metrics and see what best fits our idea of a good life.   
Firstly, in this case we would’ve not only reached a high earning potential but also built equity along the way, assuming 20% profit margins, 50% equity in the business and a 3-5x multiplier we are looking at a net worth of around 3 to 5 million which is quite an unreachable amount through investments alone regardless of the income capacity. And again regardless of the money, the impact we would have on the lives of those around us would be exponentially bigger, how? Both hiring people to help us pursue our mission as well as creating a new product or service for customers to choose is way more impactful than any position could ever hope to have. Also, the impact this path would have on our lives is even greater, in the job route we would probably get very specialized in what we do and also very good at understanding and exploiting the dynamics of the company culture and office space. On the other hand the entrepreneurial route would force on us a level of difficulty and problems that will either crush us or make us grow like only a mastodonic challenge can. Problems would not be specialized but generic, from taxes to tech, from people management to cash flow control. If you agree that one of the goals for a human is to grow into its full potential than you also agree that this way of life achieves that goal exponentially faster than the other option, assuming that one allows for growth in the first place. 

Now it is only right to push the ball back in the middle, let’s talk stress. If you have ever started something on your own you know how hard it can be to feel stuck and to not know how to solve a problem while people expect so much of you\! Even if you haven’t, just imagine how hard and stressful it must be to raise a baby, who needs you all the time and takes your constant attention for years on end, every hour of every day and every night\! Now just add the fact that the business will never heal itself, that you have no parental instincts and that other parents are not trying to help you out but actively hoping that your baby dies so that theirs can succeed more easily. With that being said, we always hear about the top 1% this, top 1% that. But to be honest, the top 5% works just as well for this example. Well that top 5% does stuff differently, almost no one in it is an employee and thus it is either self employed or owns businesses (here I refer to owners as investors as well). Then this mathematically implies that for the employee route one would face 19 times the competition\! 19 times is a lot of competition\!  

Now for the ranting portion of this essay… why the fuck would one want to lick butts all his life just to maintain a fucking bitch job and a bitch position, just for the hopes of being promoted to a slightly better bitch job? Yeah no\! Fuck that, all of this just to make a living you could hunt for instead of earn\! We evolved as hunting animals, PREDATORS, I ain’t no fucking farmer\! Definitely not a farmer if the farm isn’t even mine\! That is called a literal fucking slave\! The modern day version of hunting is sales\! And yes, it is brutal, if you don’t kill something you do not eat and your family doesn’t eat either\! Man the fuck up\! That’s nature, and it is ruthless\! Failing to accept and face this means going against the very nature of being a man\! And let’s not even be dramatic, there is no risk of getting physically hurt by an animal that defends itself, worst case scenario you get a ”no” to your face. Aaaand?   

Okay, rant over… kinda. But I am fired up because I am sick and tired of having doubts. And if this means that I won’t be in America for a while then so be it\! I will never be an employee and be able to live in one place rather than another one.   
Now to finish my points. How cool is it to be able to choose our colleagues by hiring them instead of being assigned in a team of people we might dislike? I mean damn, you are gonna spend the majority of your adult life with your colleagues and you are willing to take the risk of spending all that time with people you dislike? NO\!  

And finally: what kind of life do you want to live? A life that’s worth reading in a biography, or a life that’s so fucking boring not even your mom would want to read it?   
Take bold actions\! Make hard decisions\! Be willing to suffer for an epic life\! Get ready to hunt, sharpen your spear, practice with your bow\! Fck a 9-5 and embrace the 24/7\!   
 
