---  
layout: post  
title: "On Power"  
date: 2025-02-01  
location: Hayden Library, 2nd floor, Tempe, AZ, USA  
---

It is a human desire to aspire to have more power. This is a fact that many people are reluctant to say out loud or even just to admit to themselves. This desire, like the devil, is a shapeshifter and it often manifests itself in different, more socially acceptable dresses.   
Few people would commit to a sentence like: “I want to be more powerful”, but almost all of us frequently think and say that our goals are to get richer, more attractive, physically stronger, more intelligent or more knowledgeable. If we look closely under these blanket terms these are none but crystallizations or forms that power can assume. Before I argue further, let me reveal my definition of power: “The speed in capacity or ability to direct or influence the course of events or the behavior of others”. No wonder why many abstain from proclaiming publicly that they want more power, this sounds incredibly manipulative\! And yet, the above mentioned acceptable desires are nothing but ways to gain increased directive control on the reality we live in everyday as people\!   
Money is the clearest example because it is a storage of human time and effort. Money is like a battery of human abilities that allows us to go places, eat foods, have experiences, acquire material possessions that we couldn’t otherwise. Whenever one buys a meal, whether it’s from a Michelin rated restaurant or McDonalds one is conducting and directing the work of thousands of individuals, from the farmers that raised the cattles for meat and cultivated the grains for the bread to the server that pretends to smile as you order\!   
The female instinctive search for beauty is nothing but the result of her observation that more beautiful women are able to demand and control higher levels of power both from other women and from men.   
It is for the same reason that people value intelligence and invest into education to acquire more knowledge relative to the next person. Regardless of the declared motive, that could be a higher paying job which now we know how would increase one’s ability to influence others and shape one’s reality or just the ability to outsmart the peers and achieve one’s goals more quickly and effectively, thus becoming more powerful. 

As briefly mentioned above, power itself is relative and rarely absolute. Let me dig deeper: one’s ability to shape one’s reality and bend it to its own will is always in conflict with two other forces. The laws of physics are first and foremost the main obstacle to one’s power. No matter how smart, rich or attractive one is there is no physical possibility to, for example, change the course of events that happened in the past. Additionally, one’s power is always limited by the relative power of others, both as individuals and as a collective. I’ll go further: we live in a time where a select group of people holds and applies an enormous amount of relative power. Musk or Trump are great examples, but let’s go more extreme to bring this point home and think about the current North Korean dictator Kim Jong Um, he is considered a God by most of the population he controls and who he enslaves. But why does he enslave them? And why does his influence drop to extremely low levels just outside of the borders of his country? The answer to the second question answers the first one too. Westerners don’t keep him in as high of a position because to us his power is relatively low and for most he is just a maniac with a nuclear arsenal that is miniscule when compared to that of America or Russia, the “Powerful Countries”. It is for this reason that he must keep his people blind to the knowledge of higher power because that would crumble his influence on the people just like in Greek Mythology Chrono tried to eat Zeus and his brothers to avoid the risk of losing his relative power. If the North Koreans realized the relative weakness of their leaders they could, like in a sort of modern day French revolution, collectively harness the individual power to overcome that of a tyrant.   
Speaking of revolutions and now that we are done with definitions and examples let’s imagine how the current groundbreaking technological one we are currently experiencing will increase everyone’s absolute power and let’s attempt to predict how this overall rise of the tides will alter the delicate equilibrium of relative powers. 

It is clear that AI pulls reality closer to one’s imagination and will. What used to take hours of work, money and knowledge now can be done in a matter of seconds. And yet, not every country is yet on board and not everyone in the same country is taking advantage of this cheap abundance of power. Between countries, technological revolutions have historically created enormous disparities but this one will create separation like never before. Countries that cannot afford AI due to lack of resources or human capital will perish just like those who over regulate instead of embracing the new form of intelligence out of fear and envy (yes I am talking about you, Europe). Inside countries, those who act fast who ironically already have by definition more power, will gain even more and will create a level of well-being like never seen before.   
As it has been shown historically, the positive externalities will trickle down to everyone, the textbook example would be that a poor man in modern times is better off than a kind just a couple of centuries ago, but this of course neglects men's comparativist nature. And despite this seemingly positive fact, it will be inevitable that the sea between those who have and those who don’t will become an ocean and then eventually a galactical, insurmountable distance to the point where natural selection will make its way between us people and speciation will take place, brutally and yet, inevitably.     
Perhaps I lose my characteristic positive and hopeful attitude as I extend my imagination to (not so) distant futures. 

Before I leave you, let me ask some thought provoking questions:   
If you had 10 times the power you currently do, what would you do differently? What if it was 100 times greater? (Try not to focus just on money here but, if that’s it for you go ahead)  
If everyone else had 1 tenth of the power but you kept the same, what would you do differently? And why does your answer change compared to that of question one?

Until next time, stay powerful\!

Love, Gio
