---
layout: post
title: "Trust yourself not your brain!"
date: 2025-01-26
location: Memorial Union Starbucks, Tempe, AZ, USA
---
the realization that we are not our brain comes slowly but then suddenly. We are not our brain because one can't be both the listener and the speaker. We are the one who listens to our thoughts. The clear eveidence for this statement is that our thoughts change overtime, based on the experiences we go through as individuals. What we see, hear, touch, changes our nervous system of which the brain is nothing more than the CPU. What makes us feel emotions has a particularly impactful result on the way we see the world and how we think about it. ur thoughs are shaped by the universe but somehow, this constant change does not affect "us" the passive observer of our inner dialog. It would be a fatal mistake to fail to realize this distinction in our conscience. Why? Because our thoughts can get clouded by the way our bodies feel! 

I always wondered what is the mental difference between people that quit and people who don't regardless of what the endevour is. Particularly, after reading and listening about the infamous Navy Seals training Boot Camp "Hell Week" I have deeply searched for what is it that some people have and some don't. What is mental toughness? Is it trainable or innate, nature or nurture? Well, mental toughness is nothing but a stronger sense of sel. A person who recognizes than not all thoughts are to be trusted is someone who can activel reject the thoughts that would be incoherent with their self or their future self. Let me explain. When our body is tired or its experiencing extreme pain, this is felt by the nervous system as a signal to take action to avoid the pain. But how can the nervous system communicate with us when we actively supprss the bodily feelings that tell us to stop? Well, it does so by trying to convince The Listener that taking that action and avoiding the pain is indeed the most coherent thing to do. But of course if one signed up to train as a navy seal, how could the body's CPU convince him that he actually don't want that and that he should ring the bell and give up? Lying! In order to manipulate someone you must apply pressure right where that person lacks strenght, and in order to know one's weaknesses you must know him first! Unfortunally for us, no one knows us better than our manipulative, amoral, selfish brain. And don't get me wrong, it does an amazing job at keeping us alive! after all why would you put yourself in such hard conditions like swimming in shark infested waters at freezing temperatures during the night for one week straight with no sleep if your goal is to have a higher chance of survival? But this mechanism can go to far, and keep us trapped in a life of comfort and stagnation. 

Most people reading this are probably not gonna join the navy seals, so why does this matter to us? Beacause learning how to recognize our own lies will enable us to deafeat them and achieve our goals through discipline and hard work. Don't believe the lies trying to keep you under warm blanckets when you promised you'd wake up at 5 am on a freezing january night, you will not die! Don't believ the lies telling you that you ran long enough when you promised you'd run longer! Don't believe the lies telling you that procrastination on your project or goal will allow you to do it better tomorrow. I am sure you could go on with coutless other examples. To conclude: one must get to know one's self deeply and truthfully in order to discern the lies from reality. If you truly know who you are and what you want, nobody can convince you to give that up! Not even your own brain! Stay strong! Fight with yourself and win, one action at a time!

